Programa Doutoral em Ciências Económicas e Empresariais
Seminário I : 2025-2026
Multilevel and Mixed Methods Approaches in Modelling and Evaluation
Evaluation checklist
Title of the paper: Authors: Venue of publication:
Is the problem statement clearly described? What problem is being addressed? Are there objectives described and supported by literature? Where (pp)? Have the authors proposed hypothesis? Are they supported by literature? Where (pp)? Are the concepts, constructs and variables identified and defined? Where (pp)? Is a figure provided showing the model, including any associations and interactions between constructs and/or variables? Where (pp)? Does the theoretical model identify the different levels of analysis? Does the model involve pure hierarchical relationships or does the model involve multilevel crossclassification or multiple membership? Describe. Does the theoretical model include the within-level and the cross-level interactions? Is literature used to identify the relationships between the concepts, constructs and variables used in the model proposed? Are the levels of analysis provided and supported from the literature? Which levels of theory, constructs, measurement, analysis? What types of data are used in the study? What sources of data are identified in the study? At which levels are located the sources of data identified in the study?
Multilevel and Mixed Methods Approaches in Modelling and Evaluation Silvina Santana 2025

Does the study provide information regarding a sampling procedure? Describe. Are the within-level interactions identified with support from the literature? Where (pp)? Are the interactions between higher-level and lower-level constructs provided and supported by the literature? Where (pp)? Which within-level direct effects are identified in the paper? Which cross-level direct effects are identified in the paper? Which within-level mediation effects, if any, are identified in the paper? Which cross-level mediation effects, if any, are identified in the paper? Which cross-level moderation effects, if any, are identified in the paper? Are there aggregation/emergence processes identified in the paper? Where (pp)? Are the aggregation/emergence processes supported by the literature? Where (pp)? Which statistics techniques and packages are used in the analysis and for what? Does the paper provide theoretical and statistical justifications for the analyses described? Where (pp)? What are the main results of the study? Are they in line with findings from other studies brought by the authors to the discussion? What can you say about the quality of the study? Address validity, reliability, bias in data sourcing, bias in analysis, bias in interpretation, bias in reporting, ..
Multilevel and Mixed Methods Approaches in Modelling and Evaluation Silvina Santana 2025

